# 3D model importers

Ab4d.SharpEngine includes a **ReaderObj** that can be used to import 3D models from obj files. Obj file is a very common and simple text based file format that usually comes with a separate mtl file that defines materials. Note that the obj file cannot store object hierarchies.

The **Ab4d.SharpEngine.glTF library** (available as a separate NuGet package) can read 3D objects from glTF files. glTF is a standard file format for three-dimensional scenes and models and is defined by the KhronosGroup. The file format uses one of two possible file extensions: .gltf or .glb. Both .gltf and .glb files may reference external binary and texture resources. Alternatively, both formats may be self-contained by directly embedding binary data buffers. The Ab4d.SharpEngine.glTF library provides a **glTFImporter** and **glTFExporter** classes that can import or export existing 3D scene. It is also possible to export any 3D scene from the Diagnostics window by clicking on **"Export Scene to glTF"**.

To read 3D models from many other file formats, use the **Assimp importer**. Assimp (Open Asset Import Library) is an open source library that can **read 3D models from almost all file formats**, including **fbx, dea and ply** (click on "Show supported formats" button in the AssimpSample to see all supported file formats). It is compiled into a native library. Therefore the Ab4d.SharpEngine.Assimp library is required to use Assimp importer.

These samples come with precompiled Assimp libraries that are available in the lib/assimp-lib folder. When using the Assimp library you need to make sure that the correct native dll is present in the same folder as the app or that you set the path to the dll by providing it in the call to the AssimpLibrary.Instance.Initialize method.

The previous importers support reading 3D objects from 3D meshes that are defined by triangles (positions + triangle indices). But CAD applications do not work with triangles but with solid objects that are defined by mathematical equations. Those objects can be usually exporter into **STEP** (.step, .stp) or **IGES** (.iges, .igs) files. Those two file types can be read by using the **Ab4d.OpenCascade library** that can read the parts hierarchy with all faces and edge data. This is demonstrated in the **CadImporter** application - [see project on GitHub](https://github.com/ab4d/CadImporter).

It is also possible to import **point-cloud data** with **PlyPointCloudReader** (reading from .ply files) and by using **LoadXyzFile** method to read from .xyz files. The source for PlyPointCloudReader is available in the Ab4d.SharpEngine.Samples.Common project in Utils/PlyPointCloudReader.cs file. The source for LoadXyzFile is available in Importers/PointCloudImporterSample.cs file.